SPONSOR:  
Rep. Minor-Brown & Sen. Walsh & Rep. Romer & Rep. Griffith & Rep. Osienski & Sen. Pinkney
Reps. Berry, Harris; Sen. Hoffner
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
153rd GENERAL ASSEMBLY
HOUSE BILL NO. 191
AN ACT TO AMEND TITLE 24 OF THE DELAWARE CODE RELATING TO MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS, TITLES, AND NONHUMAN ENTITIES.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE:
Section 1. Amend § 1920, Title 24 of the Delaware Code by making deletions as shown by strike through and insertions as shown by underline as follows:
§ 1920. License requirements; use of abbreviations.
(h) A nonhuman entity, including an agent powered by artificial intelligence, may not be licensed in any of the following:
(1) The practice of professional nursing. 
(2) Practice as an advanced practice registered nurse.
(3) The practice of practical nursing.
(i) A nonhuman entity, including an agent powered by artificial intelligence, may not use any of the following titles or abbreviations: 
(1) Advanced Practice Registered Nurse or the abbreviation “APRN”.
(2) Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist or the abbreviation “CRNA”.
(3) Clinical Nurse Specialist or the abbreviation “CNS”.
(4) Certified Nurse Practitioner or the abbreviation “CNP”.
(5) Certified Nurse Midwife or the abbreviation “CNM”.
(6) Nurse.
(7) Registered Nurse or the abbreviation “RN”.
(8) Licensed Practical Nurse or the abbreviation “LPN”.
(9) Doctor or the abbreviation “Dr.”.
Section 2. Amend § 1720, Title 24 of the Delaware Code by making deletions as shown by strike through and insertions as shown by underline as follows:
§ 1720. Certification requirements to practice medicine.
(k) 
A nonhuman entity, including an agent powered by artificial intelligence, may not be certified to practice medicine in the State. 
(
l
) A nonhuman entity, including an agent powered by artificial intelligence, may not use any of the following titles:
(1) Doctor or the abbreviation “Dr.”. 
(2) Physician or surgeon.
(3) Medical Doctor or the abbreviation “MD”.
(4) Doctor of Osteopathy or the abbreviation “DO”.
Section 3. Amend § 1773, Title 24 of the Delaware Code by making deletions as shown by strike through and insertions as shown by underline as follows: 
§ 1773. Regulation of physician assistants.
(d) A nonhuman entity, including an agent powered by artificial intelligence, may not be licensed as a physician assistant in the State.  A nonhuman entity, including an agent powered by artificial intelligence, may not use the title physician assistant or the abbreviation “PA”. 
SYNOPSIS
This Act clarifies that a nonhuman entity, including an agent powered by AI, may not be licensed as a professional nurse, APRN, practical nurse, physician, or physician assistant.  It further clarifies that a nonhuman entity may not use any of the foregoing professional titles.