HOUSE BILL No. 2183
AN A CT concerning  state  agencies;  relating  to  interpretation  of  statutes,  rules  and  
regulations and documents with the force and effect of law; prohibiting deference to  
the  agency's  interpretation  by  a  state  court  or  an  administrative  hearing  officer  
hearing an administrative action.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Kansas:
Section 1. (a) In interpreting a state statute, rule and regulation or  
document  that  has  the  force  and  effect  of  law,  a state  court  or  an  
administrative  hearing officer  hearing  an  administrative  action  may  
consider but shall not defer to a state agency's interpretation of such  
statute, rule and regulation or document and shall interpret the meaning  
and effect of such statute, rule and regulation or document de novo.
(b) In  an  action  brought  by  or  against  a  state  agency,  after  
applying  all customary tools of interpretation and  rules of statutory  
construction pursuant to law, a state court or an  administrative hearing 
officer  hearing an administrative action shall exercise any remaining  
doubt  in a  way  that  is  consistent  with  an  individual's  fundamental 
constitutional rights.
(c) As  used  in  this  section,  "rule  and  regulation"  and  "state  
agency" mean the same as defined in K.S.A. 77-602, and amendments  
thereto.
Sec. 2. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its  
publication in the statute book.
I hereby certify that the above BILL originated in the 
HOUSE, and was adopted by that body
                                                                            
HOUSE adopted
Conference Committee Report                                                      
                                                                               
Speaker of the House.          
                                                                               
Chief Clerk of the House.     
Passed the SENATE
          as amended                                                       
SENATE adopted
Conference Committee Report                                                              
                                                                               
President of the Senate.       
                                                                               
Secretary of the Senate.       
APPROVED                                                                  
     
                                                                                                              
Governor.      